---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 4 - Intertestamental Period"
date: 2022-09-12
---

* What is the intertestamental period, and what are some of the key events?
    * This is the time between the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament.
    * At the end of the OT, the Jews have relative freedom under Persia
    * At the start of the NT, the Romans rule, and everyone writes in Greek.
    * The intertestamental period is about 430 years

* What was the role/influence of Alexander the Great?
    * His efforts are to Hellenize the people.
    * To Hellenize means to create one people with one language (Greek), culture, and religion
    * This is around 330 BC
    * This is why the New Testament is written in Greek.
    * The Old Testament was then translated into Greek, and it is called the "Septuagint"

* What was the Maccabean narrative surrounding Hellenization?
    * Many people completely gave up their covenants and just started following all of the Greek culture.

* Who were Eleazar and Mattathias, and what were their contributions?
    * Eleazar is a 90 year old priest. Told he had to eat pork or get killed. His friends told him to just pretend. He refused and was killed so that he would be a good example to others.
        * His covenants were very important to him.
    
    * Mattathias, is a priest, and he and his sons led the Maccabean revolt.

* Who was known as the "king of the Jews" when Jesus was born?
    * Herod the Great

* What is the "synoptic gospel" and what does "synoptic" mean?
    * Matthew, Mark, and Luke are the synoptic gospels
    * "Synoptic" means "see together"