---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 11 - Matthew 10-12"
date: 2022-10-10
---

* What is the idea of an "inclusio", and how is it used in Matthew?
    * The intentional repetition of clearly recognizable elements at the beginning and end of a composition or one of its parts.
    * See Matt. 4:23 and 9:35 - Teaching and Preaching in 5-7 and Healing in 8-9

* The Savior's commission to the twelve (and how does it draw upon previous chapters)?
    * The words "sent forth" in verse 5 reflects the Greek word for "apostle", which means "one who is sent forth"
    * He gives them power against unclean spirits, to heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils
        * This reflects the miracles Jesus just did in chapters 8 and 9

    * Go preach to the house of Israel about the kingdom of heaven.
    * Love and serve Christ above all else. Lose your life in His work, and do things in His name.

* What are possible interpretations of Matthew 8:22?
    * "Let the dead bury their dead" may have had reference to the tradition of a second burial, where family members would gather up the bones of the deceased about a year after a person had died and then place those bones in an ossuary. Jesus may have been indicating here that that tradition is unnecessary when it prevents a person from accepting a call to discipleship.

* What distinctions exist among Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes?
    * These groups represent the three schools of philosophy among the Jews:
        * Pharisees
            * Considered most skillful in the exact explication of their laws, and are the leading sect.
            * Very influential among the body of the people, and whatever the people do about divine worship, prayers, and sacrifices, they perform them according to the Pharisees' direction.
            * "Separatists" - Separated by strict observance of commandments. Most populat Jewish religious group.
            * They believed in both the written law of Moses and an oral law of Moses.
                * The oral law was a set of observances that were passed down orally and were not written in the law of Moses.

        * Sadducees
            * Reject the Oral Law. Only believe that the written law is necessary to be followed.

        * Essenes - have a reputation for cultivating a particularly saintly life. Dead Sea Scrolls, kind of separate from everyone.

* What are fence laws (and what are some of their inherent dangers)?
    * The Oral Law "make a fence around the Law."
    * Benefits
        * Protected from sliding into sin.

    * Challenges
        * Start focusing on/teaching the fence instead of the law.
        * Become burdened with too many laws.
        * Start judging others based on the fence laws.

    * Collectively, the Pharisees' fence laws were anciently known as the "yoke of the law"

* What are the possible interpretations of "take my yoke upon you"?
    * Find your own fence laws and don't let the fence laws of others bring you down.