---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 18 - John 1-3"
date: 2022-11-02
---

* What is some biographical information about John?
    * All of these are true:
        * John the Apostle
        * John the Disciple
        * John the Beloved
        * John the Revelator
        * John the Brother of James

    * One of the twelve, was a fisherman.
    * May have been Jesus' first cousin (through Salome, Mary's sister & mother of James and John).
    * Worked with his father (Zebedee), his brother (James), and Simon Peter.
    * Originally a disciple of John the Baptist

* What is some background information about the gospel of John.
    * Supposed to have been written last (90 AD)
    * Written to those who are already Christians
    * 92% unique. Many unique stories.
    * John the Apostle and/or early Christians ("we") collect, abridge, and record the following records into the Gospel of John:
        * John the Baptist's record
        * John the Apostle's recollections
        * Other early Christian records, recollections, and traditions

    * He devoted most of nine chapters (12-20) to the Lord's last week, and used one-third of the 879 verses to describe the Savior's last 24 hours
    * Christ is always in control, always knows, never surprised

* What are the central purposes of the Gospel of John?
    * John's stated purpose: "These are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name" (John 20:31)

* What is the overall division (structure) of the gospel of John (4 Parts)?
    * Prologue (1:1-51)
        * *Logos* Hymn
        * The first witnesses and disciples

    * Book of Signs (2:1-11:57)
        * First signs and dialogues
        * Signs and discourses in the context of Jewish feasts
        * The raising of Lazarus and its aftermath
        
    * Book of Glory (12:1-20:31)
        * Setting the scene for the Passion
        * The Last Supper and the farewell discourses
        * Crucifixion, death, and burial
        * Resurrection
        * Purpose of the Gospel

    * Epilogue (21:1-25)
        * Resurrection appearance to seven at the Sea of Galilee
        * Jesus and Simon Peter
        * The fate and testimony of the Beloved Disciple

* What does *Logos* mean, and what does it represent?
    * It means "The Word or expression"
    * It represents the Master (in the sense that Jesus was the Word, or expression, of His Father to the world)

* How does Nicodemus differ from some of the other "types of disciples" in the gospel of John (see John 3:1 in addition to Huntsman's insights)?
* What insight can we gain from the Greek translation of the phrase "be born again"?