---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 10 - Matthew 8-9"
date: 2022-10-05
---

* In what ways does Matthew share his unique testimony in these chapters?
    * "Inclusio" - The intentional repetition of clearly recognizable elements at the beginning and end of a composition or one of its parts.
        * 4:23 - "teaching, preaching, and healing"
        * 9:35 - "teaching, preaching, and healing"

* What are the categories of the Savior's miracles?
    * Power over **disease**
    * Power over **elements**
    * Power over **devils**
    * Power over **death**

* What are the reasons Jesus performed miracles?
    1. To Witness he had power over all things
    1. To reveal his character (love and compassion)
    1. To motivate people to recognize and cast off their spiritual infirmities, even as he had cast off their physical infirmities
    1. To create teaching opportunities for the presentation of sacred gospel truths
    1. To prevent people in their ignorance from frustrating the purposes of God (escape crowd in Nazareth [Luke 4:28-30])
    1. To reward and strengthen the faith of believers
    1. To set an example for his apostles and followers

* What is leprosy, how is it viewed, etc?
    * It is an infectious disease (rarely fatal) which results in severe disfigurement of the feet/hands/face. Principal symptoms are skin lesions causing loss of sensation and swollen joint nerves causing severe pain.
    * People saw it as a punishment from God, they were considered unclean, had to live outside of society, and were considered no different from a corpse
    * They were seen as those who had committed a hidden sin
    * They had to quarantine not to fear of contagion, but due to their unclean state
    * Could only be healed by a priest

* What specific insights can we gain from Matthew's account of Jesus' calming the sea when compared with the other synoptic gospels?
    * Insight 1:
        * Differences:
            * Matthew - "tempest"
            * Mark/Luke - "storm"

        * Defnition of tempest - Almost universally associated with the destructions and tribulations that take place at the end of the world
        * The tempest in Matthew thus becomes a symbol for the difficulties disciples face as they choose to enter the ship (the Church)

    * Insight 2:
        * Differences:
            * Matthew - "Lord" (from the Grk. *kyrios*, used as an expository equivalent for the divine name *YHWH*)
            * Mark/Luke - "Master" (a human title of respect)

        * Matthew emphasizes that it is a divine being, not just a great human who is in the ship

    * Insight 3:
        * Differences:
            * Matthew - "save us"
            * Mark/Luke - doesn't use that wording

        * Implies Jesus is acting in his divine capacity, not just as someone who has power over the physical elements but also as someone who has the power to save his disciples from physical and spiritual buffetings they experience when they choose to follow Jesus and enter into the ship.

    * Insight 4:
        * Differences:
            * Matthew - Jesus asks about their faith before He calms the storm.
            * Mark/Luke - Jesus asks about their faith after the calm.

        * The emphasis in Matthew is on the disciples' faith, or lack thereof, rather than the power to rebuke the wind and the sea.