---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 17 - Luke 15-19"
date: 2022-10-31
---

* What insights can we get from David O McKay on the "Parables of the Lord"
    * The Lost Sheep
        * "Either stupidly, perhaps unconciously, it followed the enticement of the field, the prospect of better grass until it got out beyond the fold and was lost"
        * "They have lost track of what true success is, perhaps stupidly, perhaps unconciously, in some cases, perhaps willingly. They are blind to what constitutes true success"
    
    * The Lost Silver
        * "The thing lost was not in itself responsible. The one who had been trusted with that coin had, through carelessness or neglect, mislaid it or dropped it"

    * The Prodigal Son
        * "He was irking under the restraint, and he rather resented the father's careful guiding eye. He evidently longed for so-called freedom, wanted, so to speak, to try his wings"
        * "Here is a case of volition, here is choice, deliberate choice. Here is, in a way, rebellion against authority. And what did he do? He spent his means in riotous living, he wasted his portion with harlots. That is the way they are lost"

* What is the initial audience and intent of Jesus sharing the parable of the Prodigal Son?
    * The Scribes and the Pharisees were the initial audience. The older son in the story was probably more intended for them.

* What symbolism is there in the parable of the Prodigal Son?
    * v.22 ("Bring forth the best robe") - reserved for special guests, a very special honor
    * v.22 ("Put a ring on his hand") - suggesting dignity, honor, and a recognition of family acceptance
    * v.22 ("Put...shoes on his feet") - indicating he was a son, not a slave. A mark of a slave was to go barefooted. The son had fallen to such a lowly state, but now he was restored to family status
    * v.23-24 ("Bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it....For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry") - The fatted calf was reserved for special occasions

* How was the "other son" also prodigal?
    * Jeffrey R. Holland:
        The language of parallel journeys home, though from very different locations, is central to this story.

        Feeling unappreciated and perhaps more than a little self-pity, this dutiful son...forgets for a momoent that he has never had to know filth or despair, fear or self-loathing.

        He has yet to come to the compassion and mercy, the charitable breadth of vision to see that *this is not a rival returning*. It is his brother.

        One who has heretofore presumable been very happy with his life and content with his good fortune suddenly feels very unhappy simply because another has had some good fortune as well.

        As others seem to grow larger in our sight, we think we must therefore be smaller. So, unfortunately, we occasionally act that way.