---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 21 - The Final Week Part 1 - Matthew 21-24"
date: 2022-11-14
---

* What elements of the triumphal entry show that Jesus is the King of Israel?
    * Riding on a donkey (1 Kings 1:32-34, Zechariah 9:9)
    * Spreading Palm Leaves and Clothes (2 Kings 9:13)
    * Shouting "Hosanna" (1 Kings 1:39)
    * Calling Jesus the "Son of David" (2 Samueal 7:12-16)

* What is the significance of Matthew's placement of the story of Jesus healing the two blind men?
* What is the primary message of Jesus cursing the fig tree?
    * Fig trees typically bud leaves after figs appear. Because this tree had leaves, but no fruit, it was symbolic of a hypocrite.

* What is the message and reaction to the "entrapment parables"?
    * Jesus was criticizing the priestly elite.

* What did Jesus mean when talking about the following?
    * Phylacteries
        * They are small boxes conatining written verses from the scriptures which some Jews wore on their arms or forehead. Many would wear very noticeable phylacteries.

    * Enlarge the Borders of Their Garments
        * The "borders" was a tradition of putting tassels on the hem or corners of clothes in remembrance of God's laws. Those who wanted to be seen as especially "righteous" had the tassels enlarged.

    * Straining at gnats, but swallowing camels
        * This could be a play on words in Aramaic:
            * Gnat = qalma
            * Camel = gamla
        * The gnat is one of the smallest unkosher animals.
        * The camel is one of the largest unkosher animals.
        * They strain out unkosher gnats. By ignoring more important commandments, the Jewish leaders figuratively swallowed an unkosher camel.

    * Tithing mint, dill, and cummin, but neglecting the weightier matters
        * The Law of Moses intended tithe of regular crops of fruits, vegetables, and grains. But the Jewish leaders were concerned with even the tiniest garden herbs.

* What is the name/significance of the discourse in these chapters (also understand the term *eschatology*)?
    * Eschatology is the part of theology concerned with death, judgment, and the final destiny of the soul and of humankind.
        * Subjects like the Second Coming, the Millennium, the Spirit World, Resurrection, Judgment, Kingdoms of Glory, etc.

* What two questions structurally set up Matthew 24?
    * When shall these things be (i.e. the destruction of the temple)?
    * What is the sign of Jesus' coming and of the end of the world?

* What is the major change between the KJV Matthew 24 and JS-Matthew 1?
    * Matt 24 in the KJV contains 1050 words, and the JST contains 1500. Joseph Smith added more to Matt 24 than to any other chapter in the NT.
    * The JST reorders many verses (This is the major change)

* What emphasis on audience is there with the changes in the JST?
    * The audience is "the elect"

* What direction is given for preparing for the second coming from Matthew 24/JS-Matthew 1??
    * "Keep your eye on the prophet" - Ezra T. Benson
    * "Whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived" - JSM 1:37
    * Stand in Holy Places