---
layout: post
title: "Lectures 7-8 - Matthew 1-4"
date: 2022-09-26
---

* What is significant about the title of "The Gospel of Matthew"?
    * The JST changes it to "The Testimony of St. Matthew"

* What is some basic biographical information about Matthew?
    * Also known as Levi, the son of Alphaeus, although Levi may be a tribal designation
    * Levites were typically Pharisees, well-educated, and Orthodoxy
    * He was a publican
    * He knows the law super well
    * He was one of Jesus' 12 apostles

* Who was Matthew's primary audience?
    * His audience is more of a Jewish-Christian one. He doesn't explain Jewish things as much as Mark does. He also emphasizes fulfillment of OT prophecy. He also connects Christ and Moses.

* What are the important parts (themes, structure, etc) of Matthew's "portrait" of the Savior?
    * He goes into depth on how Jesus fulfills OT prophecy

* What are "formula quotations", and how does Matthew use them?
    * Phrases like "that it might be fulfilled"
    * Matthew uses them to testify that Jesus' life and mission were the fufillment of OT Messianic prophecies.

* What connections are there between Moses and Jesus?
    * Moses
        * Pharaoh kills children; Moses is protected in Egypt
        * God parts the Red Sea
        * 40 years in the wilderness
        * Mount Sinai
        * 5 books of Torah
            * Genesis
            * Exodus
            * Leviticus
            * Numbers
            * Deuteronomy
    
    * Jesus
        * Herod kills children; Jesus is protected in Egypt
        * God speaks at Baptism
        * 40 days in the wilderness
        * Sermon on the Mount
        * 5 major sermons
        * Matthew's gospel could be divided into 5 books that mirror the books of Moses

* What are the important names and titles from Jesus' geneologies?
    * David
    * Abraham
    * Jesse
    * Solomon
    * Women:
        * Tamar
        * Rahab
        * Ruth
        * The wife of Uriah - Bathsheba
        * Mary

    * All of the previously mentioned women had stories of moral impropriety told about them (some of which were true, others were not true)
        * Perhaps the implicit message was: Don't worry if you've heard things about Mary, these kinds of stories have been told before about women in the Messiah's genealogy. There is more to the story, God knows what he is doing, Trust him.

* What lessons can we learn from the women in Jesus' geneaologies?
    * All of the previously mentioned women had stories of moral impropriety told about them (some of which were true, others were not true)
        * Perhaps the implicit message was: Don't worry if you've heard things about Mary, these kinds of stories have been told before about women in the Messiah's genealogy. There is more to the story, God knows what he is doing, Trust him.

* What is the importance/implication of the "Emmanuel prophecy"?
    * This comes from the idea that Matthew 1 is divided into two sections:
        * Genealogy (Jesus' earthly origin) - v.1-17
        * The birth narrative (Jesus' divine origin) - v.18-25

    * Important term - Intertextuality
        * When an author draws from the words of another author

    * The Emmanuel prophecy
        * Matthew quotes from Isaiah
        * Isaiah 7
            * v. 14 - "Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel."
            
                * This verse has different meanings depending on the context:
                    * In this chapter's context, it is suggested that the child is Isaiah's son or Ahaz's son. It could be symbolic. The message is that the Lord will get rid of their two foes in a short time as long as he trusts Him.
                        * At one point, the Assyrians are getting close to Jerusalem, but the Lord tells them to keep having faith. He fulfills His promise by sending an angel to slaughter 185,000 Assyrians super close to Jerusalem.
                    
                    * In Matthew 1, he is saying that the ultimate fulfillment of this prophecy is the birth of Jesus.

* What are the "Bookend" messages from Matthew's gospel?
    * "God with us" - Matthew 1
    * "I am with you always, even unto the end of the world" - Last chapter of Matthew

* What are the key points on Matthew's inclusion of the account of the Magi?
    * GOLD = a gift for a king
    * INCENSE = used in sacrifices to worship the Lord
    * MYRRH = used in burials
    * There is not an actual number for the ammount of wisemen there were
    * They probably found Jesus when he was closer to two years old

* What lessons can we learn from Joseph in Matthew 1-2?
    * While he and Mary are betrothed, she is found with child.
        * He has the choice to either publicly shame her, divorce without public shame, or go forward.
        * He originally wanted to divorce without the public shame, but as he thinks on it, the Lord tells him to go forward.
        * He is faithful to what the Lord asks.

    * He is a faithful man
    * With his name, visits from angels, and visions and dreams, he could remind everyone of Joseph of Egypt.

* What is the Church's official stance on dating the birth of Jesus?
    * There is no official declaration on the matter.

* What connections are there between John the Baptist and Elijah?
    * His appearance, diet, message, preaching to corrupt rulers, victims of evil women.

* Why was Jesus baptized?
    * From 2 Nephi 31
        * To be humble
        * To be obedient
        * To set an example

* What is the difference in genealogy between Matthew 1 and 3?
    * Not much genealogy is given for John the Baptist. He's just described as the new Elijah

* What are the 3 temptations Satan gave Jesus in Matthew 4, and how can they be likened unto us?
    * A temptation of the *appetite* (Turn stone into bread)
    * A temptation of *pride and fashion and vanity* (Jump off the temple and save yourself)
    * A desire for the *riches* of the world or *power* among men (Worship me and the world is yours)

* What is the pattern in how Christ responds to Satan's temptations?
    * He quotes scripture
    * This is how He gives no heed to the temptations
    * This is seen in 1 Nephi 8:23-24