---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 19 - John 4-8"
date: 2022-11-07
---

* What are unique contextual elements in the story of the woman at the well?
    * She comes to draw water at a time when no one else does. She's an outcast among her people.
    * Jesus approached her in the day (opposite of Nicodemus)
    * Jews have almost no dealings with Samaritans

* What is the progression in how the woman at the well refers to Jesus?
    * "A Jew"
    * "Sir"
    * "prophet"
    * "the Christ"

* What important insights help us understand the phrase "God is a spirit"?
    * There are no indefinite articles ("a", "an") in Greek, so the "a" here was put in by a translators
    * We can read this phrase in the same way we read "God is light", "God is love", "God is witness", etc.

* What is the meaning of "Bethesda"?
    * "House of mercy" or "House of grace"

* What is the significance of John 5:29 to the restoration?
    * This is the verse that Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were meditating upon before receiving their vision of the three degrees of glory as recorded in D&C 76.

* What are the 7 "I AM" statements in the Gospel of John?
    * "I am the Bread of Life"
    * "I am the Light of the World"
    * "I am the Door"
    * "I am the Good Shepherd"
    * "I am the Resurrection and the Life"
    * "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life"
    * "I am the Vine"

* What symbolism exists in the feeding of the 5000?
    * Jesus is the bread of life

* What is the significance of the "I am" statement in John 7-8 in its ancient context?
    * Jesus is saying that He is Jehovah
    * In Leviticus 24:16 - "He that blasphemes the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him."
    
* Which Book of Mormon story probably happened during the feast of tabernacles?
    * King Benjamin's Speech

* What did Jesus say in John 8 that led the people to want to stone Him?
    * "Before Abraham was, I am" (8:53,58-59)