---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 22 - The Final Week Part 2 - Matthew 25, John 13-14"
date: 2022-11-28
---

* What insights can you get from the three parables in Matthew 25?
    * They are Parables of Preparation.

* What interpretation of the collective 7 "signs" (miracles) in the Gospel of John is there?
    1. The miracle of water into wine (John 2:1-11) - Jesus is man's answer to diappointment
    2. Healing the noble man's son (John 4:46-53) - Jesus is man's answer to doubt
    3. Healing the man at the pool (John 5:1-9) - Jesus is man's answer for all diability
    4. Feeding the 5000 (John 6:4-13) - Jesus is man's answer for all hunger
    5. Jesus walks on water (John 6:16-21) - Jesus is man's answer for all despair
    6. Healing the blind man (John 9:1-12) - Jesus is man's answer for all darkness
    7. Raises the dead (John 11:30-44) - Jesus is man's answer to death

* What are the differences between the synoptic accounts and John's account regarding the timing of the Passover meal?
    * Matthew, Mark, and Luke indicated that it happened on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread. It happens on the Passover Meal on the 14th day of the month. They say that Jesus dies on the 15th day.
    * John says the Last Supper was on the night before that on the 13th day of the month. He says that Jesus dies on the 14th day when the Passover Meal would have been had.

* What is the significance of Jesus willingly washing the feet of His disciples (John 13)?
    * "The towel spoken of here is a linen cloth, the type that was used by field workers as aprons. Jesus would have removed his tunic and cloak, and thus he would have been dressed like a slave in a loincloth or underclothing."
    * When visiting family or friends, social convention suggested that the host would provide water and a towel so the visitor could wash his or her feet after a journey. In more welathy homes, a slave but certainly not the host might perform the degrading service. So it is with shock and surprise that we see Jesus seemingly demeaning himself in performing the duty of a slave. Note that the same Greek verb (*tithemi*) used to describe Jesus' act of laying aside his garments here is the same on used elsewhere by Jesus to describe laying down his life.

* How is the commandment in John 13:34-35 a "NEW" commandment?
    * The previous law in Leviticus instructed the people to "love...as thyself"
    * The new law instructs us to "love...as I have loved you"

* What insight can we get from the Greek word translated as "comforter" in John 14?
    * The word is composed of *para*, meaning "beside," and *kletos*, meaning "one who is summoned." A *parakletos* is one who is summoned to another's side as a helper, intercessor, or advocate

* Who participated in the last supper?
    * All his disciples - men, women, and children.

* What principles can we take from the questions asked by the twleve in the upper room?
    * "Lord, is it I?"
        * "Let us inquire about our individual stumbling blocks." - Neal A. Maxwell
        * "Would we look at those around us,...or would we, like the disciples of old, look inward and ask that penetrating question: 'Is it I?' In these simple words... lies the beginning of wisdom and the pathway to personal conversion and lasting change." - Dieter F. Uchtdorf