---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 15 - Luke 1-7"
date: 2022-10-24
---

* What insights can we gain from the Greek language in the Annunciation verses as well as in Mary's response? (Remember how Mary is viewed in their culture)
    * When Mary says "Behold the handmaid of the Lord"
        * The Greek word translated as "handmaid" means "slave" (the same word is used to represent the relationship between Hagar and Sariah)
            * In this context, Mary is simply saying that she is a servant of the Lord.

* What story is Mary likely drawing upon in the Magnificat?
    * The Song of Hannah (1 Samuel 2:1-10)
        * We should appreciate Mary more

* What are the similarities and differences in Matthew's and Luke's nativity accounts? (include historical elements)
    * Matthew
        * Born in Bethlehem
        * Wise men
        * Herod sends them to Bethlehem
        * Star leads them
        * Offer gifts of gold, incense, and myrrh
        * Dream warns the wisemen to avoid Herod
        * Dream warns Joseph to go to Egypt

    * Luke
        * Decree of taxation
        * Nazareth to Bethlehem
        * Jesus born and placed in manger
        * Angels appear to shepherds
        * Shepherds bear witness
        * 8-day old child is circumcised and named Jesus
        * Offer sacrifice in Jerusalem after 40 days
        * Return to Nazareth

* What key lesson can we learn from Simeon's words to Mary?
    * From the JST - "Yea, a spear shall pierce through him to the wounding of thine own soul also..."
    * "Wise old Simeon understood all of this--that the birth was ultimately for the death--and it thrilled his soul that salvation was come." -Elder Holland

* What inclusio is in Luke 2, and what can we learn from it?
    * Luke 2:40-52 - This inclusio describes how Jesus grew up.

* What important lessons can we learn from Luke's account of the "call narrative" in Luke 5?
    * Luke 5:5 - "Master, we have toiled all the night and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net"
        * A lesson: When the Savior asks me to do something--even if I have a million reasons not to--lower my net.
    * Christ often asks us to follow Him when the nets are full.

* What insights can we get from the story of the widow of Nain? (location, social standing, timing, etc)
    * Nain is small and relatively poor.
    * Nain is about thirty miles away and 1300 feet above Capernaum.
    * For Jesus to get there "the day after" he would have had to walk through the night.
    * For this widow, having her son die was spiritually and emotionally taxing, but she was also facing financial ruin and starvation. Since her only son was dead, this widow was at the end of her rope financially.
    * Jesus just "happened" to get to Nain right when the burial was about to happen. He had compassion on her and acted.