---
layout: post
title: "Lectures 5-6 - Intro to the Gospels and the Gospel of Mark"
date: 2022-09-19
---

* What is the synoptic problem, and what are the leading theories of explanation?
    * There is a literary relationship between Matt, Mark, and Luke, and the synoptic problem/question is who wrote first?
    * Theories:
        * Two-source hypothesis:
            #. Mark: written first and is one of the sources for Matthew and Luke
            #. Q: The source of similar things in Matt and Luke that is not in Mark
        
        * Four-source hypothesis:
            * Same as the two-source, but Matt and Luke each have a unique source (M & L) in addition.

        * Farrer Hypothesis:
            * Mark written first
            * Matthew written based on Mark
            * Luke written based on Matthew and Mark

    * Marcan Priority - Idea that Mark is the earliest gospel, so he influenced the rest.

* How can we compare and contrast reading the New Testament in a harmony VS sequentially VS synoptically?
    * Harmony - An artificial bleding of the four gosepls into one story
        * Pros - Easier to read as one clear narrative
        * Cons - Lose the uniqueness and variation of each gosepl writer

    * Sequentially/Vertically - Read each of the gospels one at a time right after each other
        * Pros - Focus on the audience, message, narrative, and structue of each individual Gospel
        * Cons - Can be repetitive (some accounts are very similar)

    * Synoptically - Read each of the stories in the writer's voice and then compare and contrast them
        * Pros - Comparing the Gospels in a synopsis, or in parallel, helps you examine what each does differently and gain new insights
        * Cons - Can be harder to match up accounts side by side passages and do a careful reading

* What is the defintion of "gospel"?
    * "good news" from the Greek

* What is a good summary of the "Four Portraits of Jesus"?
    * Each gospel writer paints Jesus in a different light
    * Matthew - Jesus, the Jewish Messiah; Most structured; Most Jewish Jesus
    * Mark - Jesus, the Suffering Son of God; Most dramatic; Most human Jesus
    * Luke - Jesus, the Savior for All People; Most thematic; Most universal Jesus
    * John - Jesus, the Son who Reveals the Father; Most theological; Most divine Jesus

* Who is Mark, and what is some key biographical information about him?
    * "John Mark" from Acts 12 and 15
    * Companion of Paul and Barnabas and Peter
    * Might have known Jesus, but no evidence
    * Because he spent so much time with Peter, his gospel is probably a lot of what Peter said.
    * He is a Jew writing to the Gentiles in the West (for example Mark 7:2-3)

* What is the Messianic Secret?
    * Jesus' insistence for people to NOT declare His identity...but they immediately do.
    * Why doesn't He want that to happen?
        1. Fame
        1. Timing
        1. Devils
        1. Messianic Expectations

* What are important themes in the Gospel of Mark?
    * The mystery of the kingdom, understanding who Jesus is.
    * Jesus had a large following
    * Action-oriented

* What are unique aspects of Mark's gospel, his writing style and audience?
    * His audience is Gentiles in the west
        * He discusses Roman coinage
        * Explains Jewish traditions
        * Translates Aramaic phrases
        
    * His is fast-paced, action-packed, and meant to be read aloud
        * He uses the words "straightway" and "immediately"

    * Mark's literary techniques:
        * Interpolations ("Markan Sandwich")
            * Mark tends to start telling a story, interrupt it with another story, and then pick up with the original story after that.
            * One example - Mark 14:1-11
                * Story A - The Betrayal Plot (v. 1-2, 10-11)
                * Story B - The woman anointing Jesus (v. 3-9)
                * Mark illustrates the two ways we can respond to Jesus

    * Mark's endings
        * One of the early manuscripts of Mark end at Mark 16:8
            * There is a unique vocabulary and style after verse 8
            * Awkward transition from verses 8 to 9
            * Mary Magdalene reintroduced in verse 9 as if for the first time.
            * Verses 9-20 summarize resurrection appreaances from other Gospels
            * It's possible that the long ending is original, but was lost in the earliest versions
            * Early Christian fathers quoting from the long ending by 180 AD

    * Imperfections of the Disciples
        * 4:13, 40 - Don't understand parables, have little faith and lots of fear
        * 6:37, 52 - Didn't believe Jesus could feed everyone and then didn't realize the miracle when it happened
        * 7:18 - Still didn't understand parables
        * 8:4, 32 - Forgot about Jesus' miracles, Peter rebukes Him, fail to perform miracles
        * 8:14-26 - Same about the feeding of the four thousand
        * 9:19, 32, 38 - They don't understand His ways
        * 10:13, 37, 47 - Rebuking children, being prideful
        * Implication 1: Just as we are asked to believe in, sustain, and learn from fallible ancient Apostles, we are also being asked to sustain and follow our living Prophets and Apostles.
        * Implication 2: The Lord can work through us even though we are imperfect

* What is the overarching portrait of Jesus from Mark's perspective?
    * Jesus, the Suffering Son of God