---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 13 - Matthew 16-19"
date: 2022-10-17
---

* Jesus asks this question, "Whom do ye say that I the Son of Man am?" Whom does Jesus ask this question?
    * He asks all of His disciples this question, but Peter is the one who answers.

* Why is it significant that Simon's name was changed to Peter? (Go into the Greek and other interpretations)
    * "Upon this rock"
        * Peter = *petros* (Greek), Rock = *petra* (Greek); a play on words

    * Because the name Peter can mean "rock", the name change is significant.
    * Meanings for "Rock" - Peter (the Prophet), Christ Himself, the Gospel, and Revelation

* Why does Peter rebuke Jesus (even after just declaring Him to be the Christ)?
* What key people are there in the experience on the Mount of Transfiguration, and what did each of them do?
    * Jesus - was transfigured
    * Peter - was there/received keys/was transfigured
    * James - was there/received keys/was transfigured
    * John - was there/received keys/was transfigured
    * Moses - talked with them, gave them keys of the gathering of Israel
    * Elias/Elijah - talked with them, gave them keys of the sealing power
    * John the Baptist - appeared as a spirit on the Mount
    * Heavenly Father - bore witness of His Son

* What happened on the Mount of Transfiguration?
    * "The Savior, Moses, and Elias gave the keys [of the kingdom] to Peter, James, and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him." - Joseph Smith

* What implications does the JST make in Mattthew 18:8-9?
    * It says that there may be a need to create distance from friends or family with whom you have toxic relationships.

* What is the parable of the unmerciful servant? (Know the differences in amount of money and the overarching lesson we discussed in class)
    * Overarching message:
        * "You cannot erase what has been done, but you can forgive." -Richard G. Scott
        * "To be a Christian means to forgive the inexcusable, because God has forgiven the inexcusable in you." -CS Lewis

* What key question does the rich young ruler ask in his conversation with Jesus?
    * What shall I do to inherit eternal life? What lack I yet?
    * See Mark 10:17-22 - "Running" "Jesus loved him" "One thing thou lackest"