---
layout: post
title: "Lectures 2-3 - Approaching the New Testament"
date: 2022-09-07
---

* What does it mean to love God with our minds?
    * From Matthew 22:36-40
    * A lot is stressed about loving God with heart and soul.
    * What about our minds?
        * It's hard to love someone we don't know
        * We are intellectual beings
        * "Our job is to think more deeply, observe more alertly, research more thoroughly, and write more clearly--all in the service of loving God." -Cornelius Plantinga
        * "They who pass opinion on the gospel without having given it intimate and careful study are not lovers of truth, and their opinions are worthless. To secure a testimony, then, study must accompany desire and prayer." -Elder Widtsoe

* What are the structural similarities and differences between the Book of Mormon and the Bible?
    * Book of Mormon
        * 3 primary editors - Nephi, Mormon, and Moroni
        * There is a narrator-centered approach to the story-telling
    
    * Bible
        * Not much of a narrator-centered approach. We don't really know who's telling the story

* What is the definition of each of these important academic terms?
    * historiography - The world **behind** the text
        * The study of how history is written:
            * Who wrote it? When? Where? To whom?
            * Why did they write it?
            * What were their circumstances?
            * What were their biases?
            * Is it comprehensive?
            * What was the original language?
            * Was it altered?
            * What do the original words mean?

        * The different authors and editors of scripture each had their own unique styles, perspectives, and purposes

    * source criticism
    * hermeneutics - the science of interpretation, includes exegesis and eisegesis
    * exegesis - The world **of** the text
        * What the scripture meant to the people then

    * eisegesis - The world **in front of** the text
        * What the scripture means to us now

    * textual criticism
        * Finding the earliest text

* What language were the earliest manuscripts of the New Testaments written in?
    * Greek

* What were the six stages of the transmission of the New Testament (and some of the key points discussed in class)?
    1. Jesus speaks to his dispiples in Aramaic
    1. Disciples share stories about Jesus and His words
    1. Gospels -- Lengthy narratives written in Greek, mostly written after the fact
    1. Copies and Collections - The original manuscripts of the NT don't exist today. They made many copies. The earliest complete manuscript is from AD 350 - the Codex Sinaiticus. Most mistakes are due to transmission rather than translation. Scribal changes were sometimes *purposeful* and sometimes *accidental*.
    1. Canonization - There are also exclusions. The NT Canon is the collection of NT books by which we measure truth. For the most part, the writings of the NT were for current members in local churches, not for us or for the NT. Different areas had different canons, depending on what documents they acquired.
    1. Translation - see below

* How did early Christians decide which books to include in the Canon?
    1. Aposolicity - It was traditionally written by or associated with an apostle
    1. Popularity - It was read often in the churches
    1. Orthodoxy - It taught what the Christians believed
    
* Who were the key players in the translation history of the New Testament leading up to the KJV?
    * St. Jerome - Made the Vulgate, which is Revised Latin text
    * John Wycliffe - The "Father of the Reformation." Took the Latin Bible and made the first English translation of the Bible
    * William Tyndale - The first to translate the Bible from the original Greek into English
    * Henry VIII - Promised the English people that they should have the NT in their own tongue.... In April 1539 appeared the first version of the Great Bible. The King James Version comes from the Great Bible.

* What are some of the examples of the value of textual criticism?
    * When a scribe added the words about the Trinity to 1 John 5:7-8
