---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 20 - John 9-11, Matthew 20"
date: 2022-11-09
---

* What is the symbolic significance of the pool of Siloam in John 9?
    * "By choosing the Pool of Siloam as the place for the miracle to occur, the Savior was superimposing himself on the most important event of the Feast of Tabernacles. It was as if he were saying, 'You come to the Pool of Siloam to "draw water out of the wells of salvation"--I am the well of salvation.'"
    * What is the significance of Jesus' statement that He is the Good Shepherd?
    * He is saying that He is the Messiah. He is also referring to the Jewish leaders as false shepherds (ch.10)

* Why did Jesus wait 4 days before raising Lazarus?
    * He was consciously setting up a teaching moment
    * "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby"
    * It was part of Jewish culture that a person was only declared fully dead after being dead for three days

* In John's gospel, which event likely led to the final decision to kill Jesus?
    * Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead is the turning point (11:47,53)

* What insights can we receive from the laborers in the vineyard (from Elder Holland)?
    1. "Coveting, pouting, or tearing others down does *not* elevate *your* standing, nor does demeaning someone else improve your self-image. So be kind, and be grateful that God is kind. It is a happy way to live."
    2. "Don't hyperventilate about something that happended at 9:00 in the morning when the grace of God is trying to reward you at 6:00 in the evening--whatever your labor arrangements have been through the day."
    3. "His concern is for the faith at which you finally arrive, not the hour of the day in which you got there. So if you have made covenants, keep them. If you haven't made them, make them. If you have made them and broken them, repent and repair them. It is never too late so long as the Master of the vineyard says there is time."
