---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 23 - The Final Week Part 3 - Matthew 26, Luke 22"
date: 2022-11-30
---

* What other possible translations exist for the phrase "sore amazed"?
    * From the Greek *ekthambeisthai* - amazed, awestruck, astonished

* What is the definition of the word "Gethsemane"?
    * "oil press"

* What is Luke's unique contribution to the Gethsemane accout? (Be familiar with the textual criticism associated with his account)
    * v.42 - "If thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done"
    * v.43 - "There appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him"
    * v.44 - "His sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground"
    * The KJV has v.43-44, but many other versions do not include it.
    * The earliest manuscripts do include those verses, but many orthodox persons later on removed it out of fear, not understanding its purpose and great force.
    * Many believed that those verses weren't originally in Luke, but it probably was, but was just removed by those worried that Jesus' death was not heroic or noble like Socrates or the Maccabbean martyrs. They also may have worried that depicting the Christian god as one who can be killed and feel agony would seem weak.

* In what ways is the Atonement "infinite"?
    1. Infinite in the divineness of the one sacrificed
    2. Infinite in power
    3. Infinite in time
    4. Infinite in coverage
    5. Infinite in depth
    6. Infinite in the degree of suffering endured by the Redeemer
    7. Infinite in love
    8. Infinite in the blessings it bestows