---
layout: post
title: "Lecture 1 - Introduction"
date: 2022-08-29
---

* What are the four AIMS of a BYU Education?
    * Spiritually Strengthening:
        * The lessons, scholarly articles, classroom discussions and, above all, personal study of the New Testament are designed to deepen faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in His restored Church. They will also allow opportunity for the Holy Ghost to provide direct teaching, revelation, and strengthening.
    
    * Intellectually Enlarging:
        * Students will gain a greater understanding and clarity regarding the history, doctrines, and teachings in the NT. Students will also develop skills to identify principles and scriptural patterns, utilizing digital tools to increase understanding, rigorously reading the scriptures in context, employing a variety of frameworks in approaching scripture study, and increasing their ability to use the most recent scholarship on the NT.

    * Character Building:
        * A serious study of the New Testament, along with a concerted effort to “abide by its precepts,” can help each of you to become men and women of Christ. In this process you will be led to “try a little harder to be a little better” (Pres. Hinckley, Ensign, May 1995).

    * Lifelong Learning and Service:
        * This course will introduce students to various resources designed to enhance a lifelong study of the New Testament and will also emphasize relevant personal application.

* What is the structure of the course, and how can you succeed?
    * Pre-class readings - 13%
    * Class Engagement - 13%
    * Digital Dialog - 9%
    * Learning Activities - 8%
    * NT Project - 10%
    * Exams - 45%
    * Syllabus Quiz - 1%
    * Student Ratings - 1%

* What do the scriptures teach about education?
    * D&C 88:77-79 - Talks about seeking broad learning about all things.
    * D&C 88:80 - Teaches us that education will help us be prepared for the unique missions the Lord has for us.